7/10/14: I think I've had enough for today.  Time for ten hours of sleep.
Goodbye paper notebook.  I liked you, you started it.

7/13/14: Broke up with Isabel today.  It was a very miserable thing to do.  I
felt as bad as when as I thought I was going to have to quit Cornell.  I really
hope I'm doing the right thing.  I may be asking for too much but...  I may be.
Maybe I will now go back to feeling very lonely and stressed and unloved for
the rest of the summer.  Or maybe things will be even better and you will
address issues on your hiearchy.  I already feel more or less okay.  Talking
with her does feel good...better than talking to Alina, or any other of your
friends really.  That will be tricky...you have to replace her.  She...has to
replace you.  She said some pretty mean things about you.  She said you were
immature and don't care about other people, and that you thought you were
living in a tao lin novel but that you're not that good of a writer and not
that cute.  And then she said fuck you and left.  These things are all sort of
dull stings.  And she fucking came back.  Why do they always come back.  I do
not go back...not unless...I was really in love I think.  None of those things
she said really _hurt_ now they are things you already know...they are facts
that are in flux.  Facts in flux.  It was more that now I see how she sees me
and I don't like that.  Although I guess I think of Isabel in terms of
attractiveness a fair amount of the time.  It's not normally the dominant way I
think about her but it is definitely a way.  It goes back to the need to ....
do the things...live the dream.  But you need to work from the top of your cute
little hiearchy downward.  That's the only way you don't fall apart before you
realize your selfish dreams and "goals".  Images.  If you focus only on the
images you will fall apart stupidly.

I hope Isabel is okay.
 
I get this image of how Al Ly sees me...strange, maybe typical, but weird,
Bushwick male, horny.

7/14/14: isabrl: seems like a bad dream but is real life.  fuck Got a haircut
and ran this morning.  Getting to work at 10:30.  But still fuck definitely.
im goimg to tell myself that i didnt make a mistake, and believe it.  your time
is limited and shes notthe one, not now or in the long run.  one possible
reason breakups are so sad is that it breaks the usual feeling of ... statis
and continuity, of endless progressive nights and long alcohol/drug/movie
afternoons, and makes very clear the sob inducing human fact that we are always
at some point on a growth/death arc, that all will someday be lost


Maybe this is a privilege of having decent parents...but that is something to
be fiercly proud of, I've decided.  Any other feeling towards decent parents
seem selfish and stupid and ...  Spent the vast majority of today (so far)
writing a script to always be the last comment on Spencer Madsen's facebook
page (because he said he'd give a bood to the last person to comment).  

Writing just for the sake of it, and maybe to post right before I make the bots
talk to each other.  

KING OF THE HILL When I was a kid, I was the sort of kid who lived in a court
called "Pinelake Court".  On snow days the plow would come at about 4 AM and
push all of the snow onto the concentric island of dead grass in the middle of
the court.

The plow would generally wake the Steadman children up and we would watch it,
it looked very otherworldy and mechanical.  I would hope that the pile would be
bigger than it had ever been.  It was hard to judge in the orange snowy light.
It was probably usually about fourteen feet tall.

Assuming we got the snowday, during boyhood years when we were all vicious to
various degrees we spent most of the day playing "King of the Kill".  My next
door neighbor boys were the most vicious and they usually won, up to a point.
It was very fun.  We tried to make rules about not throwing giant chunks of ice
or using shovels but arguing about these rules was the point, not abiding by
them.  Injuries happened, most notably, for me, getting my scalp torn by the
metal edge of an (accidentially) swung snow shovel, and breaking my nose by
being thrown onto a tree root.

Eventually I was able to remain king for quite a while.  It would get dark so
early with the snow and winter that we would think our parents had forgotten to
call us in and let us stay out until past midnight, but then I go inside and
find that dinner had just been served, it was 9 pm.  My victories in "King of
the Hill" generally involved being the last kid outside, because the little
kids went home crying and then the older kids gloves froze and it wasn't fun
anymore.  But that sort of winter sky was very beautiful for a boy of my type
to lay in the snow and look at, thinking.

alina inspired: IMPLICIT SORRY NOT SORRY main reaction to writing is "wtf is
that"

becoming less ego-bound is important to your goals as an engineer and a writer
how can you ask your father to teach you what he knows about engineering?
really, working with him at Buffalo Wire would be an excellent job.  but
there's the BUT that you want to be 'exposed to things' and find love first.
and do the glammy things.  but how long do you do that?  if you do that, how
long is it until you are unable to go back?

some random thoughts from last night: becoming purposefully batshit in the USA
for the benefit of cultural or economic growth is very accepted, core value.

function application writing style. RTL.  remember rain night broken kiss and
your head applied to my shoulder. readers of code are trained to make sense of
things...how else could a reader be trained.

english is code on what levels?  having your parents and family see your
facebook statuses is a good way to keep yourself honest I think.  I one sense
knowing they will see will make you afraid.  In one sense that is a good thing.
They have the most complete horizontal knowledge of your life.  They know who
you were before you decided to try to be someone else.  Most everything is
better than a sad gap growing between you each year until they die.  Fuck that
kind of sadness.  It's not inevitable.  In ancient texts it seems like fathers
and sons, mothers and daughters, could hunt, work, party, talk together and
need not feel a sense of alienation from the people who love them and raised
them.  Seems stupidly capitalistic that embarassment or shame would come
between us.  I have to believe that whatever differences we have can be worked
out or explained no matter how many long days of discussion it takes to
convince them.  Or be convinced by them that they know better, and change my
mind.  If my writing is going to hurt them I want to think about that while I
write it.  Then I will not write hurtful writing for no good reason.  

7/15/14: A month left of summer, basically.  yeah.  Set up tablet so it can
properly do colors, vim plugins, etc.  Looks good.  Sort of glitchy inside
tmux.  But cool.  Oh wait it just fixed itself!  Very strange.  And then broke
again. 

Wonder what will happen with Moon Temple.  Let's trying giving myself odds: 10%
chance something big happens, 20% chance something small happens, the rest
nothing happens.

Your writing style is really up in the air right now.  It's punching at and
fiddling with empty space.  What are the odds something will come out of ~it~.  

Maybe you should just use flask for developing docgoose?  A plan for docgoose
is important at this point in the summer.  A plan for rowing is also important.
Plans you need: docgoose, open source, rowing, school, social, hardware,
writing, waste reduction, reading, ...  Too many.  Prioritizing: school,
rowing, docgoose/programming, writing, social.  Writing has less priority
because you will be able to do it for the rest of your life (?).  Whatever,
seems logical.  I think as long as it is _part_ of a plan, and the plan is
continuously executed.

7/16/14: I guess you should have plans for all those things but the plans for
the low priority ones should be "this is low priority, pay attention when you
can."

Lana Del Rey is really hot for a cancerous tumor.  Justine, Marg, Moon, Beth,
Sloane.  Good names!

Yesterday at work was good.  After, thought about creating something that uses
websockets to stream the 9/11 pages to a web app in real time, synced to the
time on 9/11.  Are these little projects worth doing?  Of course!  But you
should do them on the weekend and make sure you take your time and learn
certain topics well.  For example, the 9/11 would be about learning how to do
things in real time and using websockets with python.  I think that project
could definitely be accomplished in a weekend.  This weekend?  

It's good to feel excited.  Excitement is incompatible with grief.  Maybe you
should focus on doing some exciting things until you don't feel like you're
grieving.

Today my excitement will be going to the tinker shop.  Researched electronics
prototyping set.  Instead of getting the bare ftdi chip I'm going to get an
arduino uno kit, which should be much better documented and do the same thing
(be programmable / allow for GPIO output from an android / linux device).
Cool, I'll order it on payday.  Need to focus on the plan up to this weekend.
Even though the arduino stuff may be cooler. ... lol, cooler.  bla bla bla

7/22/14: Behind on my plans for docgoose, haven't been rowing too much despite
my time with row bros this weekend.  A lot to say about that probably...how
bleak they were in some ways, how you were mostly quiet with them.  How they
dulled in your eyes somehow, outside of the context of rowing.  Definitely do
not envy bankers.  Facebook employees etc are probably equally unworthy of
envy, you will find: main value of employment at a place like that is being
able to tell people that you work there.  The emotional effect of this is that
you've been thinking about trying to find work at a remote ("distributed")
programming agency/company like TopTal.  I think this would allow you freedom,
and the "ivy detox" period that seems important.  That seems like a genuinely
good idea.  You've made enough bad decisions lately.  I really need to get to
work: working is easier than not working.  New York seems bleaker than it ever
has: progress.

7/23/14: Got arduino today.  Too bad I'm behind on the docgoose plans and
work..."working from home" for no good reason today.  I don't really know what
to work on.  I guess fixing the impression level data stuff.  I wrote a plan for
rowing...I have that feeling of last summer, when I told myself "this is your
last chance to making it good"..."this is your last chance to make it okay"...

It's important to get work shit together.  I will work on work tonight after I
finish the pyramid tutorial and then set up ec2 / personal site stuff.

Going to go run soon.
Ran, nice.


7/25/14: Really haven't been able to get into work this week.  This needs to be
fixed!  I feel a little bit "off the range".  Oh well.  Nothing to write about.
Just need to focus and work.  Bye

Trying to find music that isn't the "same old thing", that will impress Justine.

7/26/14: Planning KTV night: kind of sucks.  Wonder if people will show up.  If
not: you'll get your money's worth in hard learning facts.  People are
"unwilling to take a risk".

7/27/14: KTV night was okay.  Of course not as good as the night with
Alina...but as expensive.  That's okay.   It felt okay.

Talking with Justine today was good.  She has some decent points and was sort of
inspiring to talk to.  Like it made me want to impress her.
"you should (have to?) demand more"
"damage control / you're safe"
Also some interesting discussion re: how our society writes more than it reads.
"Write only" language.  (ADA).  

Went to a bar to see Isabel, Claire, and the guy who Claire is seeing, who
reminds Isabel of Ed.  Isabel kept trying to make me kiss and touch her...and
tried to get me to sleep with her.  Saying it would be fun.  When I refused her
(inelegantly, I didn't really know how to handle it, and was sober, and she was
pretty drunk), she went outside and told me not to come with her.  I heard her
planning to get in a cab to go to Bedford-Nostrand where Stephen Tully lives.
This whole experience made me sad in the pleasurable way.  Long, thin lightning
strikes were in the sky on the walk home.

I got a start on the 9/11 memorial project.  It'll probably take about a week of
evenings to complete.  So I'm going to be pretty behind on my docgoose plans.

7/28/14:  I feel like I have learned so little about programming this summer...
relative to last summer.  Is that the case?  Or maybe just building apps from
scratch is a very good way to learn, and you haven't done that for Python.  Or
maybe Pyramid is just more complicated.  

I was being very productive all morning (after rowing) but then watched an ISIS
propaganda video.  It was very upsetting.  

"if this doesn't get you to change, nothing will"

7/29/14: Productive/relatively pleasant day today.  Good.  Brett seems a lot
happier.  Good.  Can go home, row, run, 

Weird sinus headaches.  Need to get a good night's sleep tonight and
spend more time outside.  Feel better now.  Outside helps the most I think.
Seek understanding, not success.

8/2/14: Has this summer been a disappointment?  No, more of a readjustment that
you knew was coming...  I feel over Isabel.  I don't think of her much.  I feel
a little lonely, yearning... but I think that the path I'm on is the right path
to meet the persons I need to meet.  I think I can think more independently.

Some thoughts I'd like to record:

to justine: "maybe we should trust ourselves and believe that by
taking the actions we truly believe in, rather than hedging, our actions will
lead us to the point where our true love stands, because our true love also
followed the path that they believe in most."

living in new york as an diversification/hedging strategy
the feeling that many of my friends are unwilling to take risks

should build a zen garden
should get more organized
japanese rock garden
mellified man
hit some kind of singularity a year or two ago
end of your novel going past death

8/4/14: Feel sad.  Miss touching, being touched, a woman.  Miss human
excitement.

8/9/14: Finished the 9/11 project!  Of course no one liked/clicked on it.
(Yet?).  Oh well, it's done.  I may learn quite a bit from *maintaining* it.
And now my personal website is set up too.  All basically for free.  Need to
evaluate what I'm going to do w/r/t the docgoose plan.  (LOL at how far behind
you are on it...but still...trudging progress...that's the important part of the
plan, I guess, is instead of giving up and getting frustrated you keep going
after it, even if you're waaaay behind schedule, because at one point you deemed
it important enough to create a plan for.

I think I'm going to do some writing.  Probably clean up loose ends first,
compile all of your texts into some sort of file that you can stick on github.

8/10/14: Saw "Boyhood" with Dennis.  Your last weekend in New York is like this.
You're sort of just killing time in the city now before you go back to school,
to FINISH it.  Breaking up with Isabel somehow meant breaking up with your "alt
lit friends", or the idea that they were your friends.  Funny, I guess.  But I
think it hurts you somewhere.  Who the fuck are your friends?  Are the things
you like/love really uninteresting/rejected by them?  The alt lit postings seem
mostly trivial and ... idk.  I want some of the good alt lit moments, nights and
stories to stay bright in your memory.  Tomorrow I'm going to try to create a
good backup of your messages/texts/emails from college.  I'm also going to look
at the writing, and see what's worth working on.  

Need to chase beauty.  And create it, be it.  
