Objectives:
    - get solid grades, solidly
    - consistently work on projects
    - crack the coding interview
    - make a new friend 
    - get to go to florida for rowing

Status: done
9/28/14: These are some very ~difficult~ goals.  They are essentially the goals
of 2012 in a lot of ways.  Each alone is difficult.  Each is not particular
exciting: I am very accustomed to ~not~ achieving these goals.  But acheiving
them would make many more things seem...and then be...in due time...possible.
But these are the goals.  The REAL GOALS.  So how have they been going?  

I can definitely get solid grades.  I have done nothing to undermine that, yet.
Getting the graphics stuff done and having a good week or two will do a lot to
reaffirm that it can be done.  Like an erg piece you just have to get close
enough to get your second wind and see the finish.

Working on projects?  What projects exactly?  I think writing has been the only
project you have been somewhat consistently working on.  There just isn't enough
time.  For now it is just writing, then.  Nothing else is as compelling.

Cracking the Coding interview: you should find another interview to do.  The
facebook stuff is good.  Prepping for it for these two weeks will also be good.
Keep it up, intensify.

Making a new friend?  Fuck.

Florida?  Makes me nervous thinking about it.

Reaffirm!

12/18/14: Done.
    - get solid grades, solidly
    This went pretty well.  This finals week was good.  Getting the mean on the
graphics final was one of the few academic things I feel good about at Cornell.
Everything else went pretty well.  You stopped going to every class at some
point, which made things a bit hairier than they had to be, but it was all
recoverable and nothing got too crazy.  You learned more than any other semester
by far.  We'll see when grades come out, but I think the outcome will be good.
3.3 is my overall GPA goal.  
    - consistently work on projects
    Eh.  When I stopped ~trying~ to do this and the cracking coding stuff every
day, things got messier.  Having this daily things keeps everything else
focused, I think.  But, I am well set up for working on Chelsea on break: the
other little projects converged into Chelsea, which will hopefully be a "game
changer"...a "game changer" is what I want and need.
    - crack the coding interview
    Facebook stuff was intense.  Definitely took some good steps.  The next
level as a programmer is probably obtainable via reading SICP, doing
Brilliant.org things, TopCoder, etc.  Project Euler.  Cracking the Coding
Interview alone won't really do it, I think.  Doesn't actually develop the
problem solving skills very much.  This doesn't really seem like a priority now,
though.
    - make a new friend
    Sigh...there's always tonight.
    - get to go to Florida for rowing
    I was far off this one.  I should probably think about why.  Probably just
did not put in the work and just expected to get better.  Injured knee kept you
a bit slower too.  I think I am set up well for spring, though.  

How to get solid grades, solidly:
    - go to all classes
    - get ahead, do assignments as they are assigned
    - never focus totally on one class
    - talk to people in your classes
    - see psychologist, consider anti-depressants
    - schedule, use planner
    - do exercises, develop understanding

How to consistently work on projects:
    - at least 15 minutes of writing
    - at least 15 minutes of programming

How to crack the coding interview:
    - work on cracking the coding interview problems for 30 minutes each day
    - as brett said, don't get stuck on any problem for more than 30 minutes
    - so you won't get too frustrated

How to make a new friend:
    - meetup groups
    - talk to people in classes
    - get enough sleep so you're social
    - go out on saturdays

How to go to Florida for rowing:
    - you know how
