# A Quiet New Voice

*An upstanding young grammatist serves as the test subject of a new "direct
semantic IO" machine.*

Even though Feyerabend would be living in Poland for over a year, it felt like
she was going on an exciting vacation. 

When Feyerabend arrived in Warsaw, an email from Addison Chen explicitly
suggested that she spend a week 'getting situated', not working.  Feyerabend
decided to go along with this.  Her new apartment building was set back from the
road, in a stand of old oak trees.   The build quality of the fixtures and
furniture wasn't amazing, but it was spacious and comfortable, with three
bedrooms and two bathrooms.


For ten years, Leah Feyerabend studied grammar, at a number of different
schools.  As her classmates went out to jobs, they always asked 

Leah Feyerabend had spent ten years at school, studying grammar.  When her
classmates had gone out to jobs, they'd always 

This was probably be the best moment of her life, Feyerabend thought.  This was
it, and it was really good.  This was everything paying off at once.

Feyerabend had spent ten years at University, studying grammar.  Whenever her
classmates had gone out to jobs, they'd always treated her with a sort of pity,
asking passive-aggressive questions like "what applications do you see for this
research?", etc.

And now she felt validated: Addison Chen's direct semantic IO project was
valuable, and apparently her contributions to it were also valuable.  She would
contribute new understanding to the world.  Feyerabend felt more certain of this
than anything else in the world, and this meant that a deep dark hole in her
life was now filled with gold.  She had experienced irreversible steps forward
in the past, and this was the biggest one.  She would never feel truly useless
again, when she was having trouble falling asleep.

Feyerabend cleaned up her snack, and went back to her desk.  A notification was
waiting for her, saying that $20,000 had been deposited into her account for
relocation costs.  Feyerabend was impressed that the organization somehow knew
her bank account number, and was able to move money to it instantly. 

<hr>


The next day was warm and summery, and Feyerabend decided to go to one of the
outdoor swimming pools she had seen on the ride from the airport.  She sat on a
towel, reading a book that had nothing to do with grammar.  It was the first
time Feyerabend had taken a serious, unstructured break in her life.   She
watched families grilling and jumping in the pool.  

Feyerabend wondered what it would be like meeting Addison on Monday.  It
probably wouldn't be particularly uncomfortable: there would be so many things
to talk about.  Feyerabend's whitepaper proposal for a codepoint plane, the
results of the hardware tests.  

It might be a bit weird, but Feyerabend was experienced with meeting colleagues
from the Internet.  She found that most people were not surprised that she was
trans: most people could tell from the picture on Feyerabend's website.  The
communication problems would work themselves out.

<hr>

Spending most of the day in the sun, wandering around the pastel and grey city,
reminded Feyerabend of being a teenager.  Feyerabend knew that she was still
young in the abstract sense, but her week of freedom brought back memories of a
different period of her life, when there was much more time.  Ever since her
early twenties, Feyerabend had been constantly aware that each day could not be
wasted, and had generally lived accordingly.  It was only out of obedience to
the project that she was going through with this week off.

She drank at dinner alone, and gave the cab driver a slip of paper with her
address on it.  Back in her strange apartment, she looked at herself in the
mirror and quieted old dysphoric feelings. 

A sense of baseless anxiety, like she had taken some sort of speedy drug and was
trying to convince herself that everything was okay.

<hr>

Shortly after sunrise on Monday morning, a driver picked Feyerabend up at her
apartment.  Feyerabend fell asleep in the car, and startled awake when they
arrived.  The driver laughed, and led her into a marble building enclosed by a
glass atrium.

Feyerabend was shown directly to her new office, a room with a bookshelf, a
coffee table, and a set of excellent digital windows.  The driver left, and
Feyerabend spent a few minutes organizing the things in her bag.

Someone pushed open the door, and stuck his head in.

"Leah?" the person said.  He had a French accent.

"Hello," said Feyerabend, standing up.  

The person introduced himself, saying that he was also a researcher.  He
suggested that they go to a meeting room, and as they walked there, he asked
Feyerabend what she thought about Warsaw. 

"The people working on the project go out for dinner together, sometimes, I like
that," he said.

Talk shifted quickly to their work.  The researcher said that he mostly worked
on the project's hardware, but that he had read through all of Feyerabend's
RFCs, and thought they were all very well-considered. 

"Do you have any insight into whether I'll be involved with the hardware aspect
of the project or not?" asked Feyerabend.

"Well, you'll be working with the hardware almost constantly.  That's the main
reason why the organization decided to fund your residency here."

"It's not an area I have much expertise in," said Feyerabend, somewhat
excitedly.  The researcher smiled.

"We've developed a fairly straightforward user interface for the focused
ultrasound CBI machine, I'll be interested in your feedback on it."

"Looking forward to providing it," said Feyerabend.

"Why don't we go take a look at it?"

"The CBI device?  Now?" 

"Sure," said the French researcher.  "Let's not waste any time.  There's some
safety training you'll have to do, but that doesn't apply to use of the CBI."

Feyerabend was very excited about the prospect of a whole year with a
medical-grade computer-brain interface.  At university, she had worked with
transcranial magnetic stimulation machines, and an Internet friend had once
shown her a focused ultrasound effector designed for use on rats, but recent
tests with the project's focused ultrasound device had suggested spatial and
temporaral resolutions orders of magnitude higher than legacy devices.
Feyerabend's proposals depended on the reality of this hardware.

On the way to see the machine, the French researcher showed her the break room,
containing only a refrigerator and a coffee machine. 

The focused ultrasound room contained a hacked-open MRI sled, stripped of its
white medical plastic. The focused ultrasound transducers were mounted on the
inside of the MRI tube, with copper wires leading to a server room.

"Here it is!" said the French researcher.  "We have a few others, but this is
the latest iteration."

The researcher gave her a tour of the machine's components.  There were few
surprises.  As he was finishing up, a middle-aged woman came into the room,
saying "Hello!" loudly to announce herself.

"Leah, meet Addison," said the French researcher.

"Wow," said Feyerabend, shaking Addison's hand lightly.  "Great to meet to you
in person, finally."  Feyerabend dimly recognized that Addison was attractive,
something she had not expected.  Feyerabend took chemical sterilization
medication, drugs that she had initially purchased from the darknet, but now had
a prescription for.

It was quickly obvious why the distributed autonomous organization that governed
the project had decided to allocate so many resources to Addison: she had the
almost garrulous enthusiasm required to effectively herd neuroscientists,
electrical engineers, and programmers.  Feyerabend was reminded of a busy but
sociable dentist, as Addison outlined the plan for the next few weeks.  Tomorrow
morning, Feyerabend could start testing the CBI machine, and would have a week
to simply experiment with it, under the supervision of Addison herself.  Then,
they would devise a research plan.

<hr>

That evening, Feyerabend asked her driver to drop her off at a restaurant near
her apartment, and treated herself to a celebratory meal.  She tried to think
back to the last time she was truly unhappy.  Work seemed so unbelievably
perfect.  As she waited for her food to come, Feyerebend used her phone to sign
up for weekly fitness classes, a few expat meetup groups, a recurring vacation
week, and automated bill payments.  It was hard to imagine being unhappy ever
again.  Humanity had progressed to a point where nothing could ruin Feyerabend's
life, except for a few thorny edge cases. 

At home, Feyerabend had a beer, and fell asleep.

<hr>

Feyerabend brought a notebook to the CBI room the next morning.  Addison arrived
moments after.

"Ready?" said Addison.

"Yup."

"Okay, I think Eric already has everything up and running.  Could you quickly
get into the calibration pose?"

Feyerabend stretched out her arms, like Jesus on the cross.

"Thanks, got your data."

The inside of the new MRI scanner was almost silent.  

"Okay.  Here we go," said Addison's voice, from a speaker somewhere.  

"We'll start with a test pulse...now."

Feyerabend experienced something entirely new.

"What was that?" laughed Feyerabend, knowing exactly what it was.  So it worked!
Of course it did.

"A qualia!" said Addison, also laughing.

The only thing that seemed comparable to what she had just experienced, at least
in terms of novelty, was when she had experienced her first orgasm around the
age of thirteen.  But this was a much quieter, more precise version of that
confused feeling.  It was totally abstract: it didn't remind her of anything she
had experienced before.  It was just there, and distinct.

"Wow," said Feyerabend.  "Got it."

"Okay, let's call that one '0', just for fun," said Addision.  "Here comes '1'."

Feyerabend experienced an entirely different quiet little sensation.

"And '0' again."

"Got it," said Feyerabend.  There was no question of confusing the two qualia.

Addison slowly transmitted a binary sequence of qualia encoding the ASCII
characters 'HI'.  When Addison finished, Feyerabend laughed gleefully.

<hr>

The focused ultrasound effector was capable of producing at least a million
different qualia, consistently, thousands of times a second.  Experiments with
human cortical plasticity had shown that novel qualia could be interpreted
semantically. At lunch, Addison explained the obvious: it was Feyerabend's job
to develop a useful set of symbol groundings for the qualia, so that they could
be used as a high-bandwidth direct semantic communication channel between the
computer and brain.

"I'd love to tell you that this will just be a prototype, but my feeling is that
whatever you develop, it will be widely adopted.  Of course, it'll be adapted
and improved, but I think you should try to create a system with strong
conceptual clarity and extensibility.  Does that make sense to you?"

"Yeah, totally."

<hr>

After a few months of thought and time experimenting with the effector,
Feyerabend began to develop her grammar and symbol vocabularly.  The first thing
she developed was a set of qualia that could be used to describe the formal
structure of a language: words related to grammar, syntax, and morphology.  A
team of programmers from the Internet helped her develop a training program that
helped users learn to associate the correct qualia with the concepts that
Feyerabend had chosen.

Feyerabend was then able to partially describe her plans for the qualia language
using qualia.  After Addison and the French researcher spent about a week using
the training program, they could go into the machine and recieve a very rapid
and concise outline of Feyerabend's language structure.

What was happening in Feyerabend's real life?  She spent the majority of each
day inside of an MRI machine, thinking, and vocally telling the computer to
store her ideas as qualia codepoints.  She limited herself to nine hour days.
They were nine hours of true work, probably the most she'd ever consistently
worked in her life.  She started using a chat application to learn Polish, and
indulged in endless small talk.  It was a familiar situation for Feyerabend: she
didn't really feel lonely, because she spent the day working with people that
she had massive respect and affection for.

<hr>

Feyerabend began to develop a set of "qualia radicals", meant to span the space
of current human experience and allow for almost limitless expansion.  The
symbols referring to morphological combination could be used along with other
symbols to create new meaning.  There was no issue of creating an overly verbose
language: the bandwidth of the CBI allowed the listener to almost instantly
comprehend a long sequence of qualia. 
 
Now in the world there was the wordless voice of her thoughts, the swell and
grind of her emotions, and this new third fast whisper.  It communicated clearly

Addison had asked Feyerabend to call her 'Addy'.  They were becoming friends.

The frustrations she experienced with her research were almost total: the fact
that she was currently unable to input qualia back to the computer was a
constant frustration, and she had trouble not becoming enraged at Eric and his
team when the machine was down due to hardware issues.

As Feyerabend's work progressed, a sinister undertone of physical dysphoria was
building.  In a distant way, Feyerabend missed her home, and constantly thought
of her ex-girlfriend, a person who she knew she didn't actually like.  The
elegance and importance of her work was making her life feel shoddy.  

Feyerabend felt that she had finally shifted from a mode of 'becoming' to a mode
of 'being'.  At work, she was starting to lead a fairly considerable team, and
felt competent almost al of the time.

In the past year I think I have undergone a shift from a mode of "becoming" to a
mode of "being".  As a child and young adult, I focused mostly on potentials:
who I would be when I grew up, and the memories I was creating.  Insofar as
things happened in real life, I was mostly interested in them as auguries of a
distant, glittering future.  The fantasy world was perhaps rightly more
important, and I leaped into relationships when my world intersected with
someone else's.  But in 2015, entropy started to creep into my life.  Since
then, every month has started to "count frantically and seems a cudgel in a
fight for happiness against time".  (Thanks Alina for that quote!)  

The onset of this sort of reality has been no surprise: I feel my parents and
education prepared me well, and I am by no means caught off guard.  My friends
and I seem to be facing the challenges of life with some grace, rigor, and
aplomb.  The shift to "becoming" from "being" comes with many pleasures, as
anyone who has ever successfully played their role in the American workplace
knows.  There's an eurphoria to the working lunch, the appropriate paycheck, the
clean apartment.  These things aren't trivial at all.

"Being" seems to require both humility and arbitrary confidence.  I have thought
a lot about shame, which is both a barrier to being, and a cornerstone of being.
Shame is a very human feeling, key to our ability to focus our efforts, but
extremely toxic in fragile moments.  Shame tells us to stop, for better or
worse, but it can also motivate us to fix things. ???

Went to ocean with her colleagues
Seawater rushing quickly under her feet


Feyerabend had no idea what future might be meaningful.

It was very clear that role would be as an important assistant of Addison Chen.
The historicity of what they were doing.

Success through smallness.

<hr>

A bronze event.

<hr>

"Leah, are you okay?  You've done...so much."

"So have you, Addison."

"But what about *me*," said Leah, laughing through her nose.  "What about
*you*?"

Addison sat down in the folding chair next to Leah.  Leah looked up at her.
Addison seemed to be consciously shifting a number of mental gears, and for a
moment seemed harder, and then softer.  She longer had the demeanor of an
effective, social dentist, but looked more liked a confused student staring at a
problem on a whiteboard. 

"We've been working together for what, five years, in various forms?  Right?"

"Yeah," said Leah.

"I think you and I were both blessed with vocations

"You want more," said Addision. 

Feyerabend felt alone when she got back to her apartment.  But, she comforted
herself with the fact that in her old age, it would probably be possible to fall
fully and deeply in love with a computer program.  She did deserve love, she
knew.  She fell asleep thinking about real life.
