# Last Tango at Hyatt 48 Lex

Emily seemed impressed with the hotel room.  It was a summer evening in
Manhattan, and the room felt like an airport lounge, with floor to ceiling
windows and a minimalist sofa.  Emily sat on the bed, smiling at Drew. 

"Let's have a drink before dinner," said Drew. "Transition."

Emily and Drew had met on the internet.  After a few months, they decided to
meet in New York, where Evan was working as an intern. 

"It's so good to see you!" said Emily as they hugged in Penn Station.
		
In the taxi to Columbus Circle, it started to get dark, and things began to feel
less real.  They leaned into each other.  

Drew had googled "restaurants with best view".  They laughed at the
ridiculousness of the Mandarin Oriental, the name mostly.  Emily was momentarily
bothered when Drew sat down at their table directly, without offering her a
chair.  Drew looked out the window, down at the angles of the Trump
International.

After eating, they walked around, stopping in front of the luxury department
store.  Emily kissed Evan. 

Back at the hotel, late at night, neither Drew or Emily could sleep.  Emily
squatted down by the window to smoke, and Drew came over to sit by her,
touching.  Drew watched Emily's illuminated face, feeling calm.

Emily was sunny and pleasant the next morning.  The pair went to a convenience
store to get food, and then spent the afternoon in bed, watching 'Sex and the
City' and talking.

Drew eventually became anxious about evening plans.  He asked Emily if she
wanted to try to go to a club, maybe the Standard Hotel.  He felt compelled to
at least try.  Emily wanted to go.

At Le Bain, they were turned away because Drew was twenty and didn't have ID.
They switched gears, and got a cab to a Taiwanese karaoke place.  It became a
special experience.  The KTV machine seemed to pick the perfect emotional songs:
'Fifteen' by Taylor Swift, 'Whatever You Like' by TI, 'The Moon Represents My
Heart' by Teresa Cheng.  Drew pulled Emily down on top of her.  One of the
waiters peeked into their room to check on them.  

They had much better sex that night.  "Just let me kiss you," said Emily.

The next day, Emily called her friend, an ex-lover and fellow musician.  She
talked to him about people in LA, New York, and the sex they'd had the night
before.  

"Yeah...that was okay...last night was good...yeah..I came, I needed that," she
laughed.  Drew smiled at Emily, amused, but also anxious.  

The next day was a Monday, the last day of Drew's internship. 

"I feel like a hotel wife," texted Emily.  

Drew went to breakfast with his boss at the Four Seasons.  He unexpectedly told
Drew that he was quitting, and going to a start-up in DC, where there were
better resources for his autistic daughter.  "It's an opportunity to create some
wealth for my family," he said.
	
Back at the hotel, Drew told Emily about his breakfast, wondering if she cared.

"It was so strange, having another adult talking with me like an adult.  It felt
good."  He was exhausted.   He got into bed and they looked at each other.  It
seemed like she cared.

There was scattered rain.  The next afternoon Emily would fly back to LA, and
Drew would drive back home to Cleveland.  	

Drew took Emily to see Grand Central.  He wanted her to see it, the blue ceiling
and the constellations were important to him.  

"You seem to expect some sort of reaction out of me," said Emily.  Drew felt
saddened.

He could tell that Emily was upset about something.  He thought: it's
happening again.  

Emily didn't want to go out to dinner.  Neither did Drew, really.  Emily kept
combing her hair and rubbing her nose in short bursts, packing her bags for the
next day.  

"Are you okay?" asked Drew. 

"I just feel like," said Emily, agitated, "that to you, I'm just an experience." 

Drew felt fear, and thought back to the last person he'd met in New York, who
called him a psychopath.  Drew wanted Emily to tell him how exactly he bothered
her, so he could change.  

She shook her head *no*, with tears in her eyes.  

"I'm going to go exercise," said Drew, and went down to the hotel gym.  He didn't
have running shoes, so he ran barefoot until the treadmill ripped skin from his
toes.  Then he went back up to their room.

After Drew got out of the shower, he sat down on the side of the bed. 

"I have a whole list of things to say," said Drew.

"Okay.  Write it down," said Emily.

"I want to say them, and don't say anything while I say them or I'll never
finish."

Emily said "okay" and let him talk.  His 'list' didn't make much sense.  Emily
could tell that a part of it was quoted from his notebook, because it sounded
displaced and off.  Or, maybe she could tell because she had read some of Drew's
notebook while he was at work on Monday.  

Emily thought about her ex, Nathaniel, who had once yelled at her for writing at
his kitchen table, because it was made of unfinished wood.  She started to cry,
and had to breathe through her mouth.

Drew finished talking, feeling a bit of catharsis.  They talked about
relationships.   Emily said how she always felt like she was getting the short
end of the stick, thinking of Nathaniel.

They went downstairs so Emily could smoke.  Emily and Drew were both starting to
get exasperated with the conversation. 

"I'm just not deeply in love with you!" Drew finally said, pacing around a
granite bench.

"I'm not deeply in love with you either!" said Emily, and they both grinned.

"This is really good!" said Emily.  

The next morning, they spent a while in bed, talking about the night before.
They had both slept well.

As Drew packed, he realized that he couldn't find his watched, and started to
panic internally.  Emily was packed.  

"Don't worry, I'm sure you'll find it," she said.

Drew felt like his life would never change, like he'd always get stuck in these
situations.

Finally he looked in the hotel gym.  It was there.

In the lobby, Drew and Emily kissed and said goodbye with warmth.  

Drew saw her laugh charmingly as the concierge helped her into a cab.   
