# Summer of Entropy

An one-legged dachshund jumped over Chris's feet, chasing a group of other
sleek, fancy Brooklyn dogs.  The dogs ran circles around the bar's veranda,
amusing the young adults perched on well-organized wooden benches, fresh from
work.  As Chris turned to watch the dogs, he found himself facing a skinny,
dark-haired woman.

"Hi, are you here for the tech meetup?" Chris asked, catching her eyes.

"Yeah," she said.  She seemed happy to talk to Chris.  As it sometimes happens,
in just a few minutes, they were talking about psychiatric drugs.

"I feel a lot more social at these events when I'm on Klonopin," the woman said,
a statement of fact.

"I know what you mean, Lexapro made me like that."

The dogs came around again, and Chris stuck out his hand.  The dachshund stopped
to smell it, giving it a lick.

"I raised a dog like this when I was on Lexapro," Chris said.  "When I was
eighteen, living at home with my parents."

"Oh, I did Lexapro for a while, but it had weird side effects."

"If anything the side effects were good, for me."

"Oh yeah?" she said.  "Like sexual stuff?"

"Yeah."

"What?"

"The sexual stuff?  It, uh, made it harder to have an orgasm, but not in a bad
way.  I would just have like, super orgasms," said Chris.

"Anyways," he continued,  "Lexapro worked out really well for me."

The woman introduced herself as Elkie.  Chris confirmed the spelling with her,
E-L-K-I-E, and went to get another beer. 

When he returned, someone was in his place, talking to Elkie about iOS
development.  It was the guy Chris had been talking to earlier. 

"I'll show you my app later," Elkie said.  "I really need feedback on my app."

"Of course."

Elkie turned to Chris, a concerned look in her eyes.

"If I show you my app, you have to promise not to steal the idea.  I've been
working really hard on it." 

Fuck, Chris thought.  Was Elkie that naive?  For fifteen minutes Chris
half-heartedly participated in an earnest, clumsy discussion of Swift's type
system, before suggesting that they go inside for another drink.  On the way
back into the sweet cool darkness of the bar, he knelt to touch the dachshund.

Elkie joined Chris by the antique cash register, waiting for the bartender's
attention.  

"The last time I was at this meetup," said Elkie.  "I was with this guy from
Tinder."

"Oh yeah?"

"I was going to swipe left on him, but then I noticed he had like fifteen
thousand twitter followers."  Chris gave her a disapproving look, smiling.


"How was he?"

"He was okay, he was Jewish."

"Are you Jewish?" asked Chris.  He looked at her again: obviously she was.  

In college, Chris had eventually realized that the girls who talked to him at
parties were of a certain type: Jewish, from New York or Long Island, and almost
always wealthy.  Now, in the post-graduate world, he still appreciated their presence
at any social event.

"I grew up in a Hasidic family, but now I'm estranged," said Elkie. 

"Woah, I'm sorry." 

"It's okay, I even eat bacon now.  Are you Jewish?"

"No, not really," said Chris.  "Hasidic?  Is that like Orthodox?"

"Like Orthodox, but a cult, you know, South Williamsburg?  They're awful, and
keep getting worse.  Honestly, I wish the Nazis had finished the job."

"What do you mean by finished the job," said Chris.

"The Holocaust killed almost all of the Hasids, but some of them got away to
Brooklyn."

"Wow, Jesus.  I'm sorry," said Chris.  His skin felt cold.

They got their mixed drinks, and sat down in a booth.  Their legs were touching.

Chris felt confident, as they started talking again.  It was summer, he was
wearing over $1000 worth of clothes.   He drew from his own past, finding that
it resonated with Elkie.  They both had exes who lived in castle-like apartments
on the Upper East Side, they both liked department stores, events, and meeting
lots of people.  

Suddenly there was a burst of light: Elkie's umbrella was on fire.  David
reached over to grab a carafe of water and doused the flames.

"Oh my God," said Elkie, fanning herself. 

"The candle," said David, pointing at the extinguished tealight slowly
hydroplaning over the table.

The acrid smell of burnt plastic attracted some other people from the meetup
group, and they joined Elkie and Chris in the booth.  Elkie repeatedly thanked
Chris, who felt satisfied with himself.

"Are you going to tell us your app idea?" asked the guy from before, when things
had calmed down.

"Okay, okay, yeah," said Elkie, a little flustered.  She told everyone about the
Tinder guy with 15,000 followers, and then got everyone to agree that Tinder
didn't really work.  But, she said, once her gay friend had set her up
successfully.  

"So your idea is an app that lets people set up their friends?"

"No, it helps gay people set up their straight friends."

The group laughed, and asked humorous questions, all with the implicit
assumption that this app, the actual software of it, would never exist.

"I see an issue," said Chris.  "What's the incentive for the gay matchmakers?
Do they get to see the messages or something?"

Elkie more or less ignored Chris's question, and continued making the case for
her app, the faces of the other programmers hovering in the darkness.

"What about bi guys?" said someone.  "Where do they fit in?"

"I would never sleep with a bi guy," said Elkie.

"That's something I've heard a few times," Chris said, not adding *from Jewish
women*.  "I don't get it."

"They got fucked in the ass," said Elkie.  "That grosses me out, I couldn't date
a man like that.  It's just my preference."

One of the other men at the table raised an eyebrow.

"I mean, all sex is inherently kind of gross," said Chris.  

After a few more minutes of this, Chris scooted away from Elkie to talk to a
European guy he often saw at this meetup, a talented .NET developer named
Stephan who had convinced Chris to experiment with Mono.  Out of the corner of
his eye, Chris saw that Elkie was now talking to a guy wearing a summer suit.
She was flirting with him, too.  Probably making more of an effort, Chris could
tell.

If she knew where I worked, thought Chris.   He stewed for a while, realizing
that he was dangerously fatigued.  It would be dark outside soon.  He had forced
himself to go to the meetup, because of guys like Stephan.  Elkie was talking
about her app again, and the guy was eating it up.

*Stupid*, he thought, as he stood up from the booth, grabbing his unnecessary
Patagonia jacket, and *typical*.  He walked out of the bar without giving Elkie
another glance.

<hr>

Chris worked at Facebook.  He didn't want the summer to end, he didn't want the
interns to go back to school.   Chris would stay at Facebook, indefinitely,
beginning the journey of adulthood.  

He was arriving at the office later and later, spending the early afternoon
reading his newsfeed until he couldn't stand it anymore.  Chris knew that he was
still doing a good job but he was angry and at all the little bits of content
that were stealing his time, his summer.  It seemed like a zero sum game.

"A Woman Jumped to Her Death From a Rooftop Bar, and People Kept Partying,"
Chris read.  The article had a picture of Elkie, one of his coworkers had shared
it.  

Chris was confused for a moment: Elkie had added him on Facebook.  Development
build quirk?  He opened the article in a new tab as he found Elkie's profile.
He switched back to the article, skin crawling.

She was dead, she had jumped off the roof of a corporate party.  Suicide.  Fuck.

Chris almost sent the article to one of his friends, but decided against it.
Triggering. 

Elkie hadn't seemed that fucked up, thought Chris.  Talking about psych drugs
was a pretty typical ice breaker, kind of like talking about astrological signs
or Myers-Briggs personality types.  The only really fucked up thing was the
thing about the Nazis.  That was chilling.

Chris felt like a loser half the time, and he was making $120,000 a year.

Researching Elkie.


<hr>

That evening, Chris met an old friend in front of her apartment in Brooklyn.  He
was buying some Ritalin from her, because he was planning on spending the
weekend at Whole Foods working on an open source project.

"Shit got real fast, I guess," said Chris.

Conversation with Jennifer.
