# Symbol Grounding

*An upstanding young programmer serves as the test subject of a new "direct
semantic IO" machine.*

Feyerabend received an invitation to spend the year working with Edison Chen and
her team in Poland, and immediately responded.  She got up from her desk and
walked to the kitchen, her upper body dancing to the pop music playing on the
office soundsystem.  

"You're in a good mood," said Roberto.  He was sitting at an awkwardly shaped
plastic table, working on a terminal.

"," replied Feyerabend, grinning.  "."

He coworkers were always very concerned about 'business value' and 'making
things work', something that seemed dull to Feyeraband.  They were building
something that had been built, contributing no new understanding to the world.

You can't start a fire You can't start a fire without a spark This gun's for
hire Even if we're just dancing in the dark

She knew that, almost certainly, the work she would do with Edison Chen would
live on beyond her, and provide a baseline of her unhappiness.

Her work, her contribution mattered! 
Even though Feyerabend would be living in Poland for over a year, it felt like
she was going on an exciting vacation.  

When Feyerabend arrived in Warsaw, they gave her a whole week to 'get situated'
in her new apartment.  An email from Emma Chen explicitly suggested that she not
do any work.  Feyerabend decided to go along with this, and had a really
relaxing week.  Her new apartment was quite large, with three bedrooms and two
bathrooms.  The build quality of the fixtures and furniture wasn't amazing, but
it was spacious and comfortable.

The protagonist takes chemical castration medication, and is a pretty
upstanding, idealistic person.  The world in general is an improved, a positive
late capitalism.  



The protagonist interacts with the other character via a computer program they
wrote.

Choosing the gender of the characters seems very difficult, critical.

A very clear, discrete presence in his mind, at a very precise point.

Now in the world there was the voice of her thoughts, the swell and grind of her
emotions, and this new third fast whisper.  It communicated clearly

The story ends without any major conflict, merely technical challenges and a
"difficult conversation" that exposes difficult realities that the characters
must confront.
